# BlindToUnblind---Goggle_for_Blind_Person
This will include the Computer Vision Features that will help Blind Person

## Table of Contents - 
* [About Project](#about-project)

## About Project
* Blindness is strictly defined as the state of being totally sightless in both eyes. A completely blind individual is unable to see at all. The word blindness, however, is commonly used as a relative term to signify visual impairment, or low vision, meaning that even with eyeglasses, contact lenses, medicine or surgery, a person does not see well. Vision impairment can range from mild to severe. Our understanding of gender and blindness started with a systematic review of global populationbased blindness surveys carried out between 1980 and 2000. This systematic review and meta - analysis showed that blindness is approximately 40% more common in women compared to men, regardless of age. Our aim is to provide develop an android application where the camera of the phone can act as the eye for the blind person that can detect the object in front of him/her and can produce the text to speech output. All of the processes is being done in the cloud for the simplifying the storage purpose of the data. we are going to make the website where the people can know about us.

* The Part included in this repository is the Computer Vision Part. The features that included are : `Indian Currency Notes Detection, Obstacle Detection on the Moving Video, Detecting Multiple Rice Types, Detecting Barcode in Images, Detecting Barcode in Videos, Reading Short Text and Printed Pages, Measuring Distance From Camera, Detecting Monuments Of India`. 

## Indian Currency Notes Detection
* About the Project - The Project aims for detecting the different currency Notes of India and giving the correct output. The purpose of the project is that, As there are physically disable people in our country, this project would help to identify different currency notes. For Eg : For the blind person, When they are doing money transaction, as they are not able to see, this project would help them to do the transactions. I have done research and found that, Person without seeing can hold the currency notes in 8 different forms. The computer vision Algorithm i.e single shot mulitbox detector detects the currency notes in all 8 directions forms and hence making it Easier for the Blind person for doing the Transactions. I have taken into consideration 9 types of Currency Notes - `10Rs New Version Notes, 10Rs Old Version Notes, 20Rs Notes, 50Rs New Version Notes, 50Rs Old Version Notes, 100Rs New Version Notes, 100Rs Old Version Notes, 200Rs Notes, 500Rs Notes`. All the images are taken on background for this project are taken from Phone Camera and not taken from the internet. 
* I have Explained each and every line of code of my Project along with the input and output Images. For more Information, Please Visit this Link - https://github.com/Nisarg-1406/Currency-Notes-Detection- 

## Obstacle Detection on the Moving Video
* About the Project - For the Blind Person, Obstacle in front of him/her is very important. So I have tested for the person moving in a Video. This project is the computer vision part which is aiming for the Obstalce detection on the moving video. It takes the input as the any downloaded video and it gives the bounding box of the obstacle in front of the person either in front of him/her OR on the left OR on the Right. When there is the space on the left then there is the indication to move Left, When there is the space on the right, then there is the indication that we can move to right, And when there is no space on Both of the side then to STOP!!
* I have Explained each and every line of code of my Project along with input and output Video Link. For more Information about Project, Please Visit this Link - https://github.com/Nisarg-1406/Obstacle-Detection-on-the-Moving-Video

## Multiple Rice Type Detection
* About the Project - For the normal Person, as well as for the Blind Person, It is very Difficult to identify the different types of Rice as almost all types of Rice have similar size, shapes, and color. This project aims for the detecting the multiple rice types in the single image. The rice type taken into consideration are - `Basmati, kolam, Idli rice`. Each Image has more than 15 rice piece of different types and the photo of the image is taken on dark as well as some lighter background. The Images of the types of Rice is NOT taken from Internet and they are taken by Phone camera. There is bounding box created around each piece of the rice detecting out the correct name of the rice among set of the rices.
* I have Explained each and every line of code of my Project along with the input and output Images. For more Information, Please Visit this Link - https://github.com/Nisarg-1406/Multiple-Rice-Types-Detection

## Reading Short Text and Printed Pages
* About the Project - For the Blind Person, If they want to get the information regarding the News or any other details of the Printed pages, and to read the short Text on the hoarding on the roads or to read the shop names on the roads, then with the help of Camera, the blind person can get the Text to speech output, without depending on the other persons for the help. This project is the computer vision part which is aiming for reading the printed pages and the short text using Tesseract OCR. It takes an input image and with the use of the algorithm it convert the image into text. It gives the correct output on the printed pages as well as on the short Printed Text.
* I have Explained each and every line of code of my Project along with the input and output Images. For more Information, Please Visit this Link - https://github.com/Nisarg-1406/Printed-Page-and-Short-Text-Reading

## Detect Barcode in Images
* About the Project - As for the blind Person, the main concern is about the health, so it is very Important to choose proper diet. So by detecting the barcode present on the Food Products with the help of Camera by clicking the Photo, the blind person in the form of speech can get to know about the Food Product ingredients and this form it can help them in major form. This project aims for the detecting the barcode and scan the barcode and detect the object for the barcode detected. The code is executed in python language in Jupyter Notebook.
* I have Explained each and every line of code of my Project. For more Information about Project, Please Visit this Link - https://github.com/Nisarg-1406/Detect-Barcode

## Detect Barcode in Videos
* About the Project - As for the blind Person, the main concern is about the health, so it is very Important to choose proper diet. So by detecting the barcode present on the Food Products with the help of Camera also by the Video, the blind person in the form of speech can get to know about the Food Product ingredients and this form it can help them in major form. This project aims for the detecting the barcode in a video and then scanning the barcode and detect the object for the barcode detected. The code is executed in python language in Jupyter Notebook.
* I have Explained each and every line of code of my Project. For more Information about Project, Please Visit this Link - https://github.com/Nisarg-1406/Detect-Barcode-in-a-Video

